--- 
category: overview
heading: About
---

<div id="mindmap" style="margin-top:40px; height:270px;">
    <script>
        // Load, on DOM ready
        if ('addEventListener' in document){
            document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function(){
                var script = document.createElement('script');
                document.body.appendChild(script);
                script.src = '/media/pablomap.js';
            }, false);
        }
    </script>
</div>



## How it works

Both SVG or HTML can be used in Pablo, although the main focus is on SVG.

Pablo acts as a thin wrapper around the contents of a web page, making it easier to work with dynamically-generated SVG and avoiding the verbose code required when using raw JavaScript.

Pablo provides methods like `circle()` and `line()` to create each kind of SVG element. It has methods for manipulating SVG and HTML, to change the appearance, size, position or some other property. It also has methods for filtering and sorting the elements.

It has a simple plugin system, allowing new functionality to be added.


## Which browsers are supported

Basic SVG is now supported in all modern browsers, including Internet Explorer 9 and mobile web browsers ([browser support table][browsers]).

Except in a couple of instances, Pablo doesn't attempt to workaround the lack of support in older browsers, although does let you know if the browser [is supported][issupported].


## How it feels

Pablo's API is inspired by [jQuery][jquery], [Underscore][_], [Backbone][backbone] and [Raphaël][raphael], although knowledge of these libraries isn't required. Using Pablo is to use SVG, so a growing knowledge of SVG goes hand-in-hand with using the library. See the [Resources][resources] page for links and books on SVG.


[browsers]: http://caniuse.com/#search=svg
[issupported]: /api/isSupported/
[jquery]: http://jquery.com
[_]: http://underscorejs.org
[backbone]: http://backbonejs.org
[raphael]: http://raphaeljs.com
[resources]: /resources/
