--- 
category: api
heading: Pablo API Reference
---

## Pablo

#### [pablo([element/selector], [attributes])](pablo/)

Returns a collection based on the passed argument which can be 
a CSS selector or an element.

## Pablo collection

### Node positioning

#### [append(element)](append/)

Append the element to the element(s) in the collection and returns 
the collection.

#### [prepend(element)](prepend/)

Prepend the element to the element(s) in the collection and returns 
the collection.

#### [appendTo(element)](appendTo/)

Append the element(s) in the collection to the argument collection and 
returns the collection.

#### [prependTo(element)](prependTo/)

Prepend the element(s) in the collection to the argument collection and 
returns the collection.

#### [after(element)](after/)

Inserts the argument elements after each element in the collection and 
returns the collection.

#### [before(element)](before/)

Inserts the argument elements before each element in the collection and 
returns the collection.

#### [insertAfter(element)](insertAfter/)

Inserts each element in the collection after each argument element(s) and 
returns the collection.

#### [insertBefore(element)](insertBefore/)

Inserts each element in the collection before each argument element(s) and 
returns the collection.

#### [remove()](remove/)

Removes the collection from a parent element as well as removing any 
events and data and returns the collection.

#### [detach()](detach/)

Removes the collection from its parent not removing any events or 
data and returns the collection.

#### [empty()](empty/)

Empties the collection of children and returns the collection.

### Node traversal

#### [children([filterBy])](children/)

Returns a collection of the collection's children.

#### [parent()](parent/)

Returns a collection of the collection's parent.

#### [parents()](parents/)

Returns a collection of the collection's ancestors, from closest to furthest.

#### [parentsSvg()](parentsSvg/)

Returns a collection of the collection's svg ancestors from closest to furthest.

#### [root()](root/)

Returns a collection of the collection element(s) &lt;svg&gt; 
root node(s).

#### [viewport()](viewport/)

Returns a collection of the collection svg element's viewport parent element.

#### [viewports()](viewports/)

Returns a collection of the collection svg element's viewport ancestors from 
closest to furthest.

#### [owner()](owner/)

Returns a collection of the collection element's closest &lt;svg&gt; ancestor 
element.

#### [owners()](owners/)

Returns a collection of the collection element's ancestor &lt;svg&gt; elements 
from closest to furthest.

#### [firstChild()](firstChild/)

Returns a collection of the collection's first child.

#### [lastChild()](lastChild/)

Returns a collection of the collection's last child.

#### [first()](first/)

Returns a collection of the first element in the collection.

#### [last()](last/)

Returns a collection of the last element in the collection.

#### [siblings()](siblings/)

Returns a collection of a the collection's siblings.

#### [nextSiblings()](nextSiblings/)

Returns a collection of all the collection's siblings after it in 
the DOM.

#### [prevSiblings()](prevSiblings/)

Returns a collection of all the collection's siblings before it in
the DOM.

#### [next()](next/)

Returns a collection the next adjacent element to it in the DOM.

#### [prev()](prev/)

Returns a collection the pervious adjacent element to it in the 
DOM.

#### [eq(index)](eq/)

Returns a collection of the specified element by the collection index.

#### [get(index) alias elements(index)](get/)

Returns the element by the collection index.

#### [find(selector)](find/)

Returns a collection based on the matching argument from within the context of the collection.

#### [traverse()](traverse/)

TO DO.

### Node properties

#### [attr([attribute])](attr/)

Get or set the attributes of the element(s) within the collection and 
can return the collection.

#### [removeAttr(attribute)](removeAttr/)

Remove the attribute of the element(s) within the collection and 
returns the collection.

#### [css([rules])](css/)

Get or set the css rules of the element(s) within the collection and 
can return the collection.

#### [cssPrefix([rules])](cssPrefix/)

Get or set the css rules of the element(s) with added vendor prefixes 
and can return the collection.

#### [addClass(class)](addClass/)

Add a class to the element(s) within the collection and returns the 
collection.

#### [removeClass(class)](removeClass/)

Remove a class from the element(s) within the collection and returns 
the collection.

#### [hasClass(class)](hasClass/)

Returns true or false wether or not one of the elements in the collection 
has the argument class.

#### [toggleClass(class)](toggleClass/)

Toggles the argument class on the element(s) in the collection and 
returns the collection.

#### [content(string)](content/)

Set the inner text content of the element(s) in the collection and 
returns the collection.

### Collection manipulation

#### [toArray()](toArray/)

Returns the collection to a JavaScript native array.

#### [size()](size/)

Returns the length of the collection.

#### [push(element) alias add(element)](push/)

Add an element to the end of the collection.

#### [concat(element)](concat/)

Returns a new collection with the passed element(s) added to the 
end of it.

#### [unshift(element)](unshift/)

Add an element to the start of the collection and returns the collection.

#### [pop()](pop/)

Remove and returns a collection with the last element in the collection.

#### [shift()](shift/)

Remove and returns a collection with the first element in the collection.

#### [slice(start, [end])](slice/)

Returns a new sliced collection based on passed collection indices.

#### [reverse()](reverse/)

Reverse the collection and returns the collection.

### Collection iteration

#### [each(fn, [context]) alias forEach(fn, [context])](each/)

Iterate over the collection and returns the collection.

#### [map(fn, [context])](map/)

Iterate over the collection creating a new collection composed 
of elements which are returned in the map callback.

#### [sort(fn)](sort/)

Iterates over the collection re-ordering it based on the sort 
callback.

#### [find(selector, [context])](find/)

Returns a subset collection of the collection based on the passed 
selector.

#### [pluck(propertyType, [attr])](pluck/)

Returns an array containing property values for the passed type of 
property (eg css, data) property name.

#### [select(fn)](select/)

Returns a new collection containing the elements for their respected 
callback function returned true.

#### [every(fn)](every/)

Iterates over the collection and returns true if all test callback 
functions returned true.

### Collection misc

#### [clone([cloneDeep])](clone/)

Returns a copy or deep copy of the collection.

#### [duplicate([amount])](duplicate/)

Duplicate the first item in the collection increasing the length 
of the collection.

#### [some(element/fn, [context]) alias is(element/fn, [context])](some/)

Returns true if any of collection elements matched the passed 
argument.

#### [indexOf(element)](indexOf/)

Returns the collection index of the passed element in the collection.

### Collection data

#### [data([data])](data/)

#### [removeData(data)](removeData/)

### Collection event

#### [on(eventName, fn, [useCapture])](on/)

#### [off(eventName, fn, [useCapture])](off/)

#### [one(eventName, fn, [useCapture])](one/)

#### [oneEach(eventName, fn, [useCapture])](oneEach/)

#### [trigger(eventNames)](trigger/)

### Pablo misc

#### [isArrayLike(arg)](isArrayLike/)

Returns true if the passed argument is like a Pablo or jQuery 
collection.

#### [isElement(arg)](isElement/)

Returns true if the passed argument is an element.

#### [isSVGElement(arg)](isSVGElement/)

Returns true if the passed argument is an svg element.

#### [isNodeList(arg)](isNodeList/)

Returns true if the passed argument is a node list.

#### [isHTMLDocument(arg)](isHTMLDocument/)

Returns true if the passed argument is a html document.

#### [isPablo(arg)](isPablo/)

Returns true if hte passed argument is a Pablo collection.

#### [template(name, fn)](template/)

Set a new svg shape template on the Pablo object by the passed 
name argument and defined by the function argument.

#### [canBeWrapped(element)](canBeWrapped/)

Returns true if the passed argument can be wrapped as a Pablo 
collection.

#### [extend(target, source, [source,], [deep])](extend/)

Returns an extended object from the passed arguments.

#### [processList(list)](processList/)

Returns a new array based on the passed space delimited string which is composed 
of the returned values of the iterator callback.

#### [create(name, [attr])](create/)

Returns a new collection containing the element based on the arguments.

#### [make(name)](make/)

Returns a native SVG or HTML element based on the passed element name.

#### [hyphensToCamelCase(string)](hyphensToCamelCase/)

Returns a string in camel-case form based on the passed hyphen-delimited string.

## SVG shortcuts

Example: `Pablo.circle()`

#### [a](a/)

Returns a collection containing the a SVG element.

#### [altGlyph([attributes])](altGlyph/)

Returns a collection containing the altGlyph SVG element.

#### [altGlyphDef([attributes])](altGlyphDef/)

Returns a collection containing the altGlyphDef SVG element.

#### [altGlyphItem([attributes])](altGlyphItem/)

Returns a collection containing the altGlyphItem SVG element.

#### [animate([attributes])](animate/)

Returns a collection containing the animate SVG element.

#### [animateColor([attributes])](animateColor/)

Returns a collection containing the animateColor SVG element.

#### [animateMotion([attributes])](animateMotion/)

Returns a collection containing the animateMotion SVG element.

#### [animateTransform([attributes])](animateTransform/)

Returns a collection containing the animateTransform SVG element.

#### [circle([attributes])](circle/)

Returns a collection containing the circle SVG element.

#### [clipPath([attributes])](clipPath/)

Returns a collection containing the clipPath SVG element.

#### [color-profile([attributes])](color/)

Returns a collection containing the color-profile SVG element.

#### [cursor([attributes])](cursor/)

Returns a collection containing the cursor SVG element.

#### [defs([attributes])](defs/)

Returns a collection containing the defs SVG element.

#### [desc([attributes])](desc/)

Returns a collection containing the desc SVG element.

#### [ellipse([attributes])](ellipse/)

Returns a collection containing the ellipse SVG element.

#### [feBlend([attributes])](feBlend/)

Returns a collection containing the feBlend SVG element.

#### [feColorMatrix([attributes])](feColorMatrix/)

Returns a collection containing the feColorMatrix SVG element.

#### [feComponentTransfer([attributes])](feComponentTransfer/)

Returns a collection containing the feComponentTransfer SVG element.

#### [feComposite([attributes])](feComposite/)

Returns a collection containing the feComposite SVG element.

#### [feConvolveMatrix([attributes])](feConvolveMatrix/)

Returns a collection containing the feConvolveMatrix SVG element.

#### [feDiffuseLighting([attributes])](feDiffuseLighting/)

Returns a collection containing the feDiffuseLighting SVG element.

#### [feDisplacementMap([attributes])](feDisplacementMap/)

Returns a collection containing the feDisplacementMap SVG element.

#### [feDistantLight([attributes])](feDistantLight/)

Returns a collection containing the feDistantLight SVG element.

#### [feFlood([attributes])](feFlood/)

Returns a collection containing the feFlood SVG element.

#### [feFuncA([attributes])](feFuncA/)

Returns a collection containing the feFuncA SVG element.

#### [feFuncB([attributes])](feFuncB/)

Returns a collection containing the feFuncB SVG element.

#### [feFuncG([attributes])](feFuncG/)

Returns a collection containing the feFuncG SVG element.

#### [feFuncR([attributes])](feFuncR/)

Returns a collection containing the feFuncR SVG element.

#### [feGaussianBlur([attributes])](feGaussianBlur/)

Returns a collection containing the feGaussianBlur SVG element.

#### [feImage([attributes])](feImage/)

Returns a collection containing the feImage SVG element.

#### [feMerge([attributes])](feMerge/)

Returns a collection containing the feMerge SVG element.

#### [feMergeNode([attributes])](feMergeNode/)

Returns a collection containing the feMergeNode SVG element.

#### [feMorphology([attributes])](feMorphology/)

Returns a collection containing the feMorphology SVG element.

#### [feOffset([attributes])](feOffset/)

Returns a collection containing the feOffset SVG element.

#### [fePointLight([attributes])](fePointLight/)

Returns a collection containing the fePointLight SVG element.

#### [feSpecularLighting([attributes])](feSpecularLighting/)

Returns a collection containing the feSpecularLighting SVG element.

#### [feSpotLight([attributes])](feSpotLight/)

Returns a collection containing the feSpotLight SVG element.

#### [feTile([attributes])](feTile/)

Returns a collection containing the feTile SVG element.

#### [feTurbulence([attributes])](feTurbulence/)

Returns a collection containing the feTurbulence SVG element.

#### [filter([attributes])](filter/)

Returns a collection containing the filter SVG element.

#### [font([attributes])](font/)

Returns a collection containing the font SVG element.

#### [font-face([attributes])](font/)

Returns a collection containing the font-face SVG element.

#### [font-face-format([attributes])](font/)

Returns a collection containing the font-face-format SVG element.

#### [font-face-name([attributes])](font/)

Returns a collection containing the font-face-name SVG element.

#### [font-face-src([attributes])](font/)

Returns a collection containing the font-face-src SVG element.

#### [font-face-uri([attributes])](font/)

Returns a collection containing the font-face-uri SVG element.

#### [foreignObject([attributes])](foreignObject/)

Returns a collection containing the foreignObject SVG element.

#### [g([attributes])](g/)

Returns a collection containing the g SVG element.

#### [glyph([attributes])](glyph/)

Returns a collection containing the glyph SVG element.

#### [glyphRef([attributes])](glyphRef/)

Returns a collection containing the glyphRef SVG element.

#### [hkern([attributes])](hkern/)

Returns a collection containing the hkern SVG element.

#### [image([attributes])](image/)

Returns a collection containing the image SVG element.

#### [line([attributes])](line/)

Returns a collection containing the line SVG element.

#### [linearGradient([attributes])](linearGradient/)

Returns a collection containing the linearGradient SVG element.

#### [marker([attributes])](marker/)

Returns a collection containing the marker SVG element.

#### [mask([attributes])](mask/)

Returns a collection containing the mask SVG element.

#### [metadata([attributes])](metadata/)

Returns a collection containing the metadata SVG element.

#### [missing-glyph([attributes])](missing/)

Returns a collection containing the missing-glyph SVG element.

#### [mpath([attributes])](mpath/)

Returns a collection containing the mpath SVG element.

#### [path([attributes])](path/)

Returns a collection containing the path SVG element.

#### [pattern([attributes])](pattern/)

Returns a collection containing the pattern SVG element.

#### [polygon([attributes])](polygon/)

Returns a collection containing the polygon SVG element.

#### [polyline([attributes])](polyline/)

Returns a collection containing the polyline SVG element.

#### [radialGradient([attributes])](radialGradient/)

Returns a collection containing the radialGradient SVG element.

#### [rect([attributes])](rect/)

Returns a collection containing the rect SVG element.

#### [script([attributes])](script/)

Returns a collection containing the script SVG element.

#### [set([attributes])](set/)

Returns a collection containing the set SVG element.

#### [stop([attributes])](stop/)

Returns a collection containing the stop SVG element.

#### [style([attributes])](style/)

Returns a collection containing the style SVG element.

#### [svg([attributes])](svg/)

Returns a collection containing the svg SVG element.

#### [switch([attributes])](switch/)

Returns a collection containing the switch SVG element.

#### [symbol([attributes])](symbol/)

Returns a collection containing the symbol SVG element.

#### [text([attributes])](text/)

Returns a collection containing the text SVG element.

#### [textPath([attributes])](textPath/)

Returns a collection containing the textPath SVG element.

#### [title([attributes])](title/)

Returns a collection containing the title SVG element.

#### [tref([attributes])](tref/)

Returns a collection containing the tref SVG element.

#### [tspan([attributes])](tspan/)

Returns a collection containing the tspan SVG element.

#### [use([attributes])](use/)

Returns a collection containing the use SVG element.

#### [view([attributes])](view/)

Returns a collection containing the view SVG element.

#### [vkern([attributes])](vkern/)

Returns a collection containing the vkern SVG element.