--- 
category: api
heading: Creation
---

Pablo can create new SVG elements in a few different ways. It returns the new elements in a Pablo collection.

## Create elements with the `Pablo()` method

Pass the element name and attributes to the `Pablo()` method:

	Pablo('rect', {x:10, y:10, width:50, height:50});

or pass an array of multiple element names:

	Pablo(['rect', 'line', 'line'], {stroke:'black'});

[Read more about this approach](/api/pablo/#pablo-05).


## Element shortcut methods

An element shortcut method can be called on the `Pablo` object:

	/* Create a Pablo wrapped <circle> element */
	Pablo.circle();

Collections have identically named element methods. They append the new element to each element in the collection:

	/* Append a <circle> to each element in the collection */
	collection.circle();


Attributes may optionally be passed to the shortcut method:

	Pablo.circle({cx:80, cy:80, r:40});
	// creates <circle cx="100" cy="100" r="50"/>

	collection.circle({cx:80, cy:80, r:40});
	// appends a <circle> to each element in the collection

A new collection containing the created elements is returned.

For elements that contain hyphens, e.g. `<font-face-name>`, there is a method with the original, hyphenated name as well as an alias method with a camelCased name. For example, `Pablo['font-face-name']()` is the same as `Pablo.fontFaceName()`.


When an element method is called, it returns the child collection. So, if methods are chained together, the context will change after an element method is called.

    /* Select an HTML element */
    var rectangle = Pablo(demoElement)
    
        // Append an <svg> element to the HTML element
        .svg({width:220, height:220})

        // Append a <rect> element to the <svg>
        .rect({width:200, height:100, fill:'turquoise'})

        // Transform the <rect>
        .transform('translate', 70)
        .transform('rotate', 45);


See the [Element reference](/api/#element-reference) below for the full list of shortcut methods.


## Creating SVG with markup

#### Pablo.toSvg(markup)

Convert SVG markup into DOM nodes (experimental).

    var shapes = Pablo.toSvg('<circle/><a><rect/></a>');
