These collection methods are used to pluck, add, remove or re-order elements in the collection. See also [Iteration](/api/#iteration) and [Duplication](/api/#duplication)


## [length](/api/length/)

Returns the number of elements in the collection.


## [\[index\]](/api/index/)

Square-bracket array notation to get a DOM element from a collection, e.g. `collection[3]`.


## [eq(index)](/api/eq/)

Returns a collection containing the element specified by the array index, e.g. `collection.eq(3)`. Negative numbers are counted from the end of the collection, e.g. `collection.eq(-2)`.


## [first()](/api/first/)
_alias: `eq(0)`_

Returns a collection containing the first element of the collection.


## [last()](/api/last/)
_alias: `eq(-1)`_

Returns a collection containing the last element of the collection.


## [slice(start, \[end\])](/api/slice/)

Slice the elements from the collection, according to the passed indices, and return them wrapped in a new collection.


## [toArray()](/api/toArray/)

Returns the collection as a native JavaScript array.


## [push(elements)](/api/push/)
_alias: `add(element)`_

Return the collection with one or more elements added to the end of it.


## [concat(elements)](/api/concat/)

Return a new collection with one or more elements added to the end of it.


## [unshift(elements)](/api/unshift/)

Return the collection with one or more elements added to the start of it.


## [pop()](/api/pop/)

Remove the last element in the collection and return it, wrapped in a new collection.


## [shift()](/api/shift/)

Remove the first element in the collection and return it, wrapped in a new collection.


## [reverse()](/api/reverse/)

Reverse the collection and return it.
