These collection methods manipulate DOM elements. See also [CSS](/api/#CSS)


## [attr()](/api/attr/)

Get or set attributes on elements in the collection.


## [removeAttr(attributeName)](/api/removeAttr/)

Remove a named attribute from each element in the collection.


## [transform()](/api/transform/)

Visually transform the elements, such as rotate, scale or translate them, using CSS transformsm using SVG's `transform` attribute.


## [bbox()](/api/bbox/)

Get the bounding box for the sum total of all elements in the collection.


## [append(elements)](/api/append/)

Append the specified elements to each element in the collection.


## [appendTo(elements)](/api/appendTo/)

Append the elements in the collection to each element specified.


## [prepend(elements)](/api/prepend/)

Prepend the specified elements to each element in the collection.


## [prependTo(element)](/api/prependTo/)

Prepend the elements in the collection to each element specified.


## [after(element)](/api/after/)

Insert the specified elements after each element in the collection.


## [before(element)](/api/before/)

Insert the specified elements before each element in the collection.


## [insertAfter(element)](/api/insertAfter/)

Insert the elements in the collection after each element specified.


## [insertBefore(element)](/api/insertBefore/)

Insert the elements in the collection before each element specified.


## [remove()](/api/remove/)

Remove each element in the collection from its parent element and remove any associated data and events.


## [detach()](/api/detach/)

Remove each element in the collection from its parent element, but don't remove associated data and events.


## [empty()](/api/empty/)

Remove the child elements of each element in the collection and remove any associated data and events.


## [content(string)](/api/content/)

Get or set the text content of elements in the collection.


## [crop()](/api/crop/)

Get the bounding box for the sum total of all elements in the collection.

## [viewbox()](/api/viewbox/)

Manipulate an `<svg>` element's `viewbox` attribute as an array of values.
