---
category: pablo
heading: Pablo()
path: Pablo
---

Returns a new, empty Pablo collection.

    var collection = Pablo();
    alert(collection.length);


Elements can be added to the empty collection with [.push()][push] and [related methods][collection-manipulation].

    var collection = Pablo();
    
    collection.push(Pablo.circle());
    alert(collection.length);


# Pablo(elements, [attributes])

Returns a new collection containing the element(s).

`elements` could be a DOM element, another collection, an array of elements, a [DOM node list][nodelist], [jQuery collection][jquery-collection] or other array-like object.

If `attributes` are specified, they are set on each element.

    var element = document.getElementById('foo'),
        collection = Pablo(element, {fill:'red'});


# Pablo(selectors, [context])

Returns a collection of elements that match the specified CSS selectors, or comma-separated list of selectors.

By default, this searches the global `document`, but an optional context element or elements can be passed.

    // A single element, specified by id
    Pablo('#foo');

    // Multiple elements, specified by class
    Pablo('.bar');

    // Multiple selectors
    Pablo('circle, line, #foo, .bar');

    // Complex selectors
    Pablo('#thing g.foo > circle[data-foo=bar]:first-child')


Both SVG and HTML elements can be targeted. Pablo uses the browser’s native selector engine ([`Element.querySelectorAll`][qsa]), so can accept any selector that the browser understands.

If a `context` is given, then only elements that are descendents of the context will be returned. The `context` can be an element, DOM list, array or collection.

    Pablo('.hexagon', myShapes);

This is equivalent to `Pablo(myShapes).find('.hexagon')` - see the [`find()`][find] method.


# Pablo(elementName, attributes)

Creates a named element with the specified attributes, and returns it in a collection.

Attributes are given as properties and values of a JavaScript object.

    Pablo('rect', {width:50, height:50});

To create an element this way, the attributes object is required, even if it is empty. If the attributes argument is missing - in this example, giving `Pablo('rect')` - then Pablo will treat it as a _selection_ and would return all existing `<rect>` elements in the document.

All the different types of SVG element can be created in this way, although they are more typically created by using an [element method](/api/elements/) - e.g. `Pablo.rect({width:50, height:50})`.


## Creating HTML

It is not possible to create HTML elements with this method. To achieve that, use `Pablo(document.createElement('div'))` or similar. (HTML creation may be supported in future).


# Pablo(elementNames, [attributes])

Creates multiple named elements and returns them in a collection. The `attributes` are optional.

    Pablo(['rect', 'line', 'line'], {stroke:'black'});


# Pablo(markup, [attributes])

Converts SVG markup into a collection of elements.

    var markup = '<circle cx="50" cy="50" r="50"/>',
        shapes = Pablo(markup);

    Pablo(demoElement)
        .svg()
        .append(shapes)
        .crop();

If `attributes` are specified, they are set on each element.

See also the collection method, [`markup()`](/api/markup/).


# Pablo(dataUrl, [attributes])

Converts a data URL for an SVG file into a collection of elements.

    var dataUrl = 'data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyB2ZXJzaW9uPSIxLjEiIHhtbG5zPSJodHRwOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDAwL3N2ZyIgeG1sbnM6eGxpbms9Imh0dHA6Ly93d3cudzMub3JnLzE5OTkveGxpbmsiIHdpZHRoPSIxMDAiIGhlaWdodD0iMTAwIiB2aWV3Qm94PSItNTAgLTUwIDEwMCAxMDAiPjxjaXJjbGUgcj0iNTAiPjwvY2lyY2xlPjwvc3ZnPg==';

    Pablo(dataUrl).appendTo(demoElement);

If `attributes` are specified, they are applied to the collection.

See also the collection method, [`dataUrl()`](/api/dataUrl/).


[push]: /api/push/
[collection-manipulation]: /api/#Collection-manipulation
[nodelist]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/NodeList
[jquery-collection]: http://api.jquery.com/jQuery/
[qsa]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/DOM/Element.querySelectorAll
[find]: /api/find/
