---
category: dataurl
heading: dataUrl()
---

Converts the collection to a `.svg` file and returns the data URL that describes the contents of the file.

    var shape = Pablo.circle({r:50});
    alert(shape.dataUrl());

An `.svg` file must include a root `<svg>` element. If the collection does not contain a single `<svg>` element, its elements are cloned, appended to a new `<svg>` element and the `<svg>` element is cropped to fit the contents before the data URL is created.


# dataUrl(type, callback)

Returns the data URL that describes the collection as a file of the specified `type`, which can be `"svg"` (the default), `"png"` or `"jpeg"`. The data URL is passed to the callback function.

    var shape = Pablo.circle({r:50});

    shape.dataUrl('svg', function(dataUrl){
        alert(dataUrl);
    });

    shape.dataUrl('png', function(dataUrl){
        alert(dataUrl);
    });

    shape.dataUrl('jpeg', function(dataUrl){
        alert(dataUrl);
    });


# Browser support

## SVG data URLs

All modern browsers support SVG data URLs. To confirm, check that `Pablo.support.dataUrl === true`.

    if (Pablo.support.dataUrl){
        // get data URL
    }
    else {
        // fallback
    }


## PNG and JPEG data URLs

Not all browsers support PNG and JPEG data URLs. To confirm, check `Pablo.support.png()` and `Pablo.support.jpeg()`, both of which are _functions_ that accept a `callback` argument. The callback is passed either `true` or `false`. Chrome 32 and Firefox 24 are known to support all the data URL types.

    Pablo.support.png(function(support){
        if (support){
            // get data URL
        }
        else {
            // fallback
        }
    });


# Recreating collections from a data URL

You can pass an SVG data URL directly to the `Pablo()` method to recreate the collection. For example, the data URL might have been previously saved in the browser's local storage or on the server:

    var shape = Pablo.circle({r:50}),
        dataUrl = shape.dataUrl();

    // Later...
    Pablo(dataUrl).appendTo('body');
