---
category: overview
---

<div id="mindmap">
    <script>
        document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function(){
            _site.mindmap('#mindmap');
        }, false);
    </script>
</div>


Both SVG or HTML can be used in Pablo, although the main focus is on SVG.

Pablo acts as a thin wrapper around the contents of a web page, making it easier to work with dynamically-generated SVG and avoiding the verbose code required when using raw JavaScript.

Pablo provides methods like `circle()` and `line()` to create each kind of SVG element. It has methods for manipulating SVG and HTML, to change the appearance, size, position and other properties. It also has methods for filtering and sorting the elements.

It has a simple plugin system, allowing new functionality to be added.

<!-- Random circles -->
<div id="demo-randomcircles"></div>
<script>
    document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function(){
        _site.circles('#demo-randomcircles');
    }, false);
</script>


# Browser support

<span id="has-browser-support"></span>

Pablo and SVG is <a href="http://caniuse.com/#search=svg" target="_blank">supported in all modern browsers</a>, including Internet Explorer 9 and mobile web browsers. IE9 does not support some SVG features, like animation.

<script>
    document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function(){
        _site.browsersupport('#has-browser-support');
    }, false);
</script>


# Inspirations

Pablo's is inspired by [jQuery][jquery], [Underscore][_], [Backbone][backbone] and [Raphaël][raphael], although knowledge of these libraries isn't required.

Pablo is quite different from [D3][d3]. D3 is a purpose-built data visualisation tool, with a slightly steep learning curve at the start. By comparison, Pablo is a tool to create interactive drawings and animations in general, and it is fairly easy to learn. Pablo can definitely be used to create data visualisations, but for anything complex, D3 is the tool to use.

Pablo gives access to the browser's full support for SVG, HTML and CSS, so a growing knowledge of these technologies will help to get the most out of Pablo. (See the [Resources][resources] page for some useful links).


[issupported]: /api/Pablo.isSupported/
[jquery]: http://jquery.com
[_]: http://underscorejs.org
[backbone]: http://backbonejs.org
[raphael]: http://raphaeljs.com
[d3]: http://d3js.com
[resources]: /resources/
